so this segment is about pre-processing
before you build any natural language
processing system you are going to get
your text in a format that the system
will not be able to understand you need
to convert it into a format that is
easier to process this stage of an an
okapi file is called pre processing
let's look at some examples first of all
we need to remove any non textual pieces
for example ads images JavaScript code
we need to understand the text encoding
for example where it's in Unicode or
some other encoding and convert it to
one of the system understand we need to
do send a segmentation understand where
the boundaries between sentences are
located and then we need to do a bunch
of other things let's look at some of
them in more detail the first is called
normalization so normalization means
that if a word can have multiple
variants we want to convert it all to
the same form so that they're not
confused label the labeled are spelled
differently in British English and
American English with one hour or 12 we
want perhaps to merge those into one the
word Extra Terrestrial can be spelled
with a hyphen in the middle or as a
single word or as with the space in the
middle we again want to be able to
collapse those into one specific
normalized version the next step is
something called stemming that is
merging words like computer and
computation into the same category based
on their stem compute we'll talk about
stemming in more detail separately
morphological analysis deals with the
relationship between words of the same
inflection so for example cars can be
labeled as the plural form of car and
both of those would be labeled as nouns
one is singular and one implore
capitalization matters a lot so if your
text is entirely in capital letters this
may be very difficult to do but if it's
in mixed case you want to be able to
distinguish between things like now and
now when the first one is just an adverb
for time and the second one is the
national organization of women and
similarly leads could be the past tense
of the verb to lead or it can be a
light-emitting diode which is an acronym
on capital X
you also want to see how all this
interferes with named entity extraction
because if you see USA capital letters
that can easily be picked up by the
named entity recognizer as a country
name but if you have a text in a foreign
language for example Musa in Spanish
means he uses that would confuse the
named entity recognizer there is a
distinction to be made between types and
tokens so a type is any sequence of
characters that represents a specific
word whereas a token is any occurrence
of a type so a word type may appear just
once in a document but the token may
appear multiple times so in the sentence
to be or not to be
we have four types to be or and not but
we have six talk is because the types 2
and B appear twice each we need to do
also something called tokenization so in
tokenization we have periods and other
punctuation symbols in the middle of the
text and we need to figure out where
words start and where words end for
example we want to collapse together ALS
without the periods with ALS with the
periods and not assume that the second
example tells us that there really three
sentences and the periods mean sentence
boundaries identifying the boundaries of
words and sentences can be actually very
tricky for example paws with apostrophe
s do we split the apostrophe or not we
have to make a decision and then use it
consistently throughout the entire
natural language pipeline there are some
abbreviations that end in punctuation
and they can be very confusing sometimes
so for example willow drive ends with
the punctuation we don't want to split
there it's not part of a sentence dr.
willow look have the same words and we
don't want to split there either even
though it has a period there are cases
of phrases that have to be used as
chunks for example New York or ad hoc
those are both two word compounds but we
want to store them as ash in the memory
of the computer as a single unit other
punctuation symbols can also create
for example the New York Los Angeles
flight if we split our spaces we're
going to assume that York - loss would
be a word which is clearly not the case
here we want to split this phrase into
New York - Los Angeles that would be the
correct way to interpret it notice that
this is different from Minneapolis st.
Paul which is the name of one place
rather than the example that we had on
the left numbers can be very challenging
we see often phone numbers and dates
that can be in very different formats it
may be very useful to recognize that
this entire sequence 8 8 8 5 5 5 13 13
is a single number and also that it is
the same number as the one shown on the
right hand side the same thing goes for
dates which can be spelled in many
different ways January - 13 - 2012 vs.
2012 0 1 13 vs. 13th January 2012 and so
on the new or else can also be very
problematic because they have portions
that are separated with slashes and
periods some of those portions may look
like words and if we don't recognize
that the whole unit is a URL we may
erroneously try to parse it into its
individual component words some
languages have additional challenges for
example this is a text from a new story
in Japanese Japanese just like Chinese
and some other languages doesn't use
word boundaries there are no spaces in
between words so it's very difficult to
figure out where a word starts an award
ends + furthermore just use this example
why it's showing on the screen Japanese
has 3 different alphabets katakana
hiragana and kanji which has to be
separated and each of them has to be
parsed separately so would segmentation
can be very difficult let's look at a
few examples the first example is from
Arabic it has the word kitab which means
book arabic is spelled right-to-left and
symbol at the right hand side is the qu
sound then the second one is the - the
next one is the R sound and the last
thing that is which is
separate from the rest is booked the
space in between those two doesn't mean
that this is a word bounder it just
happens that the letters for a and the
letter for bull have to have a space in
between them so if we try to split there
we're going to get two meaningless words
in Japanese we have an example here
kono Hanwha or Moy which means this book
is interesting again we have four words
here the first two symbols the next one
has one symbol the next one has one
symbol and the last one has two so if we
don't know that the third symbol from
the left represents book or horn we
wouldn't be able to understand where to
put this word boundaries in this face
some languages have very long words for
example in German you have some like
finance Dean Sly Stone which means
something like financial services in
this case we have three different words
that I just merged together into one
long word so segmenting something like
this can be very tricky if you want to
find for example all the documents about
financial issues we want to be able to
retrieve this document as well even
though the word finance appears as a
part of another word
so segmenting and tokenizing German
presents a particular challenge and
let's look at one more example of word
segmentation if we make a mistake in
Chinese for example we have the word for
television which consists of the
characters for electricity and to look
at if we split it into two words we'll
get something like looking at
electricity which is definitely not the
same intended meaning as television so I
mentioned that Japanese has three
different alphabets so here's an example
that shows that all the text in blue is
kanji or
Chinese characters the other two
alphabets in addition to kanji are
hiragana which is used for endings of
words and prepositions and other service
words and katakana which is used for
foreign words like in this example New
York which is the word on the left in
red and occasionally Japanese text can
also include text in the form of G which
is essentially Latin characters just
like in English and it can also have no
boar's so in this particular example we
have a phrase New York WA I make a
goshawk aku New York khushu New Era
Toshi which means New York is a city
located in the state of New York we have
three pieces of text New York America
and New York again which are in katakana
have some text in romaji which is
spelled in English we have four
characters in hiragana and only six
other characters in kanji so you can
imagine how difficult it is to
pre-process this kind of text and the
final task in pre-processing that I
would like to mention today is sentence
bound to get recognition so the globe
sentence boundary mission is to figure
out which punctuation symbols indicate
the end of a sentence now as we looked
at this example earlier Willow Drive and
dr. willow and so on very often a period
may indicate an abbreviation and rather
than a sentence boundary so Santa's body
nation is typically dealt with by using
decision trees they look at features
such as the actual punctuation is it an
exclamation point or a period is it a
question mark question marks are
unlikely to appear in acronyms for
example as part of abbreviations whereas
periods can appear in in acronyms very
frequently we can look at the formatting
for example is there space after the
period is there capitalization we can
look at the phones if there is a font
change that can indicate that we have a
new sentence or a new paragraph we can
also look at specific list of
abbreviations such as dr for doctor or
dr a.m. for morning and so on so an
example of a who and the decision tree
would be something like this if there is
no space after a period don't assume
that there is a sentence boundary so
there is a convention in English to
include one or two spaces after a period
if the text is in a different language
this room may not apply so you now have
an idea how pre-processing works and why
it is important for natural language
processing we will assume for the rest
of this course that the texts that we're
dealing with have already been
processed and properly segmented into
segments so appropriately segmented into
sentences and words so this concludes
the section on pre-processing